# Breast-Cancer-Classification
Hi! Welcome to my 2021 ISEF Finalist project on developing a novel decision-tree-based CADx system powered with specialized CNNs.

This project, titled **Novel Implementation of Deep Learning for Breast Cancer Detection Using Convolutional Neural Network and Transfer Learning** had qualified for and was submitted to Regeneron ISEF 2021, here is a link to the [abstract](https://abstracts.societyforscience.org/Home/FullAbstract?Category=Any%20Category&AllAbstracts=True&FairCountry=Any%20Country&FairState=Any%20State&ProjectId=19336).

Here's a [link](https://projectboard.world/isef2021/project/robo009---implement-deep-learning-to-detect-breast-cancer) to the projectboard page of this project on the official ISEF virtual fair website.

Please note that this is NOT a code repository. The purpose of this repository is to showcase the results of this 2-year project, as well as acting as a hub for all the links/contents associated with this project.

Part 2 of the developmental work on this project happened in between its submission to ISEF 2021 and its eventual submission to STS 2022, where I integrated the decision-tree portion and thought of using multiple, specialized CNNs rather than just trying to train a CNN that is capable of solving the problem upfront. I also wrote up a paper for submission to STS 2022. I have included the abstract of the final project below.

### Abstract

Accurate detection and assessment of breast cancer in its early stages is crucial for reducing the mortality rate of patients. While mammography screenings are integral to this process, their assessment is a complex task with significant variability due to professional experience and human errors. Deep Learning has become one of the most popular tools for assisting radiologists in this process. However, the majority of such Deep Learning Computer Aided Diagnosis (CADx) systems are overly fixated on extracting features completely independent of human insights. The drawbacks to this include the immense size of the resulting neural networks, which are costly to train, and the fact that such models are usually Black Boxes, meaning it is nearly impossible to gain insight into the problem-nature of breast cancer through machine-extracted features. In this paper, we propose a novel, light, decision-tree-based CADx system. The core of the system is a tree model generated from CBIS-DDSM (Curated Breast Imaging Subset of DDSM) dataset of pathology and metadata features identified by radiologists. Specific tree-model categories with low accuracies are then linked with Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) that train specifically within these categories to improve performance. Additionally, we investigate using CNNs to label lesions that exhibit these metadata features. We also experiment with different data organization techniques and data augmentation to optimize the accuracy of the tree model and the CNNs respectively. With CBIS-DDSM and its accompanying metadata, the proposed CADx system achieved 89.4% accuracy, while the CNN applied to identify the feature “Amorphous” achieved 95.9% accuracy, 94.6% precision, 94.0% sensitivity, and 0.961 AUC. The hybrid and computation-friendly modeling framework of the proposed CADx system makes it universally transferable to be applied to generic datasets, and scalable to lay the groundwork for a potential crowd-sourcing, web-based data analytics hub for the medical community.
